So in the last lecture, we cached our app.js
file, still we're not fetching it when loading this page in offline mode.
The reason for this is that we do cache it but when fetching it and when listening to fetch events, we
just respond with another fetch event which of course requires the network.
So if we want to retrieve the item from the cache, we have to alter that code and we can do so now.
So in the fetch event listener of the service worker, let's make sure we actually fetch the data from
our cache if available. To do that, I'll go into the respond with function here and there,
I want to return caches and caches refers to the overall cache storage,
that's important. Here we too have caches and cache. Caches
as I just said is the overall cache storage,
it allows us to open a sub-cache
and it also allows us to call match, to have a look at all our sub-caches and see if we find a given
resource there.
So we match a request here, event request, why a request?
Because keep in mind, requests are your keys.
Even though we call cache add here, this behind the scenes reaches out to a server, gets the data and
stores this request response key-value pair in your cache,
so the key always is a request object, never a string.
So therefore here, we see if we find a given request in any of our sub-caches in the cache storage of
that given page here
and if we do so, we can continue.
So this then block will give us back a response if we found this request or not. Important, even if we don't
find it,
this will be executed.
We get the response here and the response will simply be null
if we don't have the request in our cache. That's important because you could think that you cache any
error where you don't get a fitting entry in th cache
but it's actually not an error,
it's just a null response,
so we always use that then and in then, we can now simply check if we do have a valid response or not.
So we can say if response, so if this is not null, then we want to return the response,
so now we're returning the value from the cache.
We're not making a network request,
this is important,
we're intercepting the request and we're not issuing a new one,
instead we're just having a look at what we wanted to request and we see if it's in the cache and if
it is, we return it from there.
However if we don't find it in the request, then we want to return the fetch request where we
reach out or where we simply continue with the original request, so return fetch event request.
So this now allows us to continue with the network request if we want to get something which is not
cached but get it from the cache,
well if it is in there.
So let's save this and let's go back to our application,
make sure to disable offline mode so that we are online and reload
and as always under application, you'll see that the new service worker is waiting to get activated,
for now I'll skip waiting and reload my application here again.
So now let's go back to
network or stick on application and tick offline here and reload.
Now if you go to the network tab, you'll see a lot of requests are sent,
the interesting request is the app.js file though.
Here, you see that? It's fetched from service worker.
Now we see that for all these files here because they're all funneled through our fetch listener
but you see that in the end all these files are fetched from the internet then here because they have
file sizes attached to them
but one file is missing here, the app.js file. Because that never made it to the Internet,
that request never made it to the Internet,
it's cached to the service worker and then it's returned from there too,
so that's super important to keep in mind or to understand. We are fetching app.js directly from
the service worker here now,
we're not making a HTTP request. Still our app wouldn't work
offline though because fetching the app.js file isn't enough and we don't even get to the point
where we want to fetch it because we didn't cache the index.html file.
So the network tab is pretty empty here because the first important fetch of the localhost itself,
so of the HTML file itself already fails here.
So this is something we'll fix in the next videos when we finally start pre-caching our entire app shell.